Add WebHID/WebUSB information. (#7712)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/docs/extensions/mv3/webusb/index.md

---
layout: "layouts/doc-post.njk"

> title: "WebUSB on ChromeOS"
> seoTitle: "Chrome Extensions: on ChromeOS"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "WebUSB in extension service workers"
seoTitle: "WebUSB in extension service workers"
```

date: 2023-11-01
description: The WebUSB API, which exposes non-standard Universal Serial Bus (USB) compatible devices to the web, is available in extensions.
---

> The WebUSB API exposes non-standard Universal Serial Bus (USB) compatible devices to the web. This page describes aspects of the API that are particular to extensions. Refer to MDN for complete details of the [WebUSB](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/WebUSB_API).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The WebUSB API exposes non-standard Universal Serial Bus (USB) compatible devices to the web. This page describes aspects of the API that are particular to extensions. Refer to MDN for complete details of the [WebUSB API](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/WebUSB_API).
```

## Availability in extensions

> ChromeOS 117 or later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Chrome 117 or later.
```

## Permissions

> No manifest file permissions are required; however WebUSB triggers the browser's user permission flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No manifest file permissions are required; however to use WebUSB, the [`requestDevice()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/USB/requestDevice) method needs to be called from "regular" pages (any of popup, background, tabs) to request access to a device, for which a user gesture is required. Only then the extension service worker can use WebUSB to receive device events.
```

Author: I just shared a doc with text in that I had already written and shared with François. Please take a look.

---
layout: "layouts/doc-post.njk"
title: "WebUSB in extensions"
seoTitle: "Chrome Extensions: WebUSB"
date: 2023-11-02
description: The WebUSB API, which exposes non-standard Universal Serial Bus (USB) compatible devices to the web, is available in extensions.
---

The WebUSB API exposes non-standard Universal Serial Bus (USB) compatible devices to the web. This page describes aspects of the API that are particular to extensions. Refer to MDN for complete details of the [WebUSB API](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/WebUSB_API).

> Here is [a sample app for WebUSB](https://github.com/sowbug/weblight/tree/master);

Reviewer 2: This app is not an extension sample app, it's a web app.

Author: Removed the line.

## Availability in extensions

> Chrome 117 or later.

Reviewer 2: According to https://chromestatus.com/feature/5200265459269632, WebUSB support is Chrome 118.

Author: Fixed.

No manifest file permissions are required; however WebUSB triggers the browser's user permission flow.

## Manifest

No manifest keys are needed for this API.

## Supporting contexts

> This API may be used in any context. The `WebUSB.requestDevice()` method cannot be used in extension service workers. See the next section for details.

Reviewer 3: This could be more clear since later it says you can use it on the service worker via messaging. 
Could we rephrase it like it cannot be used directly in a sw, but there is a workaround in the next section?

> This API may be used in any context. The `WebUSB.requestDevice()` method cannot be used in extension service workers. See the next section for details.

Author: ```suggestion
This API may be used in almost any context; The `WebUSB.requestDevice()` method cannot be used in extension service workers. See the next section for details.
```

> This API may be used in any extension component. Although this API cannot be used in web service workers, most of its methods and properties can be used in extension service workers. See the next section for details.

Reviewer 4: Same thinking as above:

```suggestion
This API may be used in any context. The `WebUSB.requestDevice()` method cannot be used in extension service workers. See the next section for details.
```

This API may be used in any extension component. Although this API cannot be used in web service workers, most of its methods and properties can be used in extension service workers. See the next section for details.

## Chrome extension differences

> Although WebUSB is available to extension service workers, [`WebUSB.requestDevice()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/USB/requestDevice), which returns a promise that resolves with a [USBDevice](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/USBDevice) instance, cannot be called in an extension service worker. To get around this, call `requestDevice()` from an extension page other than the extension service worker and pass the reference to the extension service worker.

Reviewer 2: Please remove `pass the reference`

Author: Done.

> The following code follows a typical pattern by calling `requestDevice()` as part of a permissions flow requiring a user gesture. (If the permission has not already been granted, calling `requestDevice()` triggers it.)When the device is acquired it sends a message to the service worker, which can then retrieve the device using `getDevices()`.

Reviewer 2: As said above, the browser prompt sill always be shown and the permission will be granted only if the user picks a device.

Author: Fixed.

> The following code follows a typical pattern by calling `requestDevice()` as part of a permissions flow requiring a user gesture. (If the permission has not already been granted, calling `requestDevice()` triggers it.)When the device is acquired it sends a message to the service worker, which can then retrieve the device using `getDevices()`.

Reviewer 2: Typo:

```suggestion
The following code follows a typical pattern by calling `requestDevice()` as part of a permissions flow requiring a user gesture. (If the permission has not already been granted, calling `requestDevice()` triggers it.) When the device is acquired it sends a message to the service worker, which can then retrieve the device using `getDevices()`.
```

Author: Fixed.

> The following code follows a typical pattern by calling `requestDevice()` as part of a permissions flow requiring a user gesture. (If the permission has not already been granted, calling `requestDevice()` triggers it.)When the device is acquired it sends a message to the service worker, which can then retrieve the device using `getDevices()`.

Reviewer 2: It would be nice to link to [getDevices](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/USB/getDevices)

Author: Done.

```javascript
myButton.addEventListener("click", async () => {
  await navigator.usb.requestDevice({
    filters: [{ vendorId: 0x1234, productId: 0x5678 }],
  });
  chrome.runtime.sendMessage("newDevice");
});
```

> {% Label %}serviceworker.js{% endLabel %}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
{% Label %}service-worker.js{% endLabel %}
```

```javascript
chrome.runtime.onMessage.addListener(async (message) => {

>   if (newMessage === "newDevice") {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  if (message === "newDevice") {
```
